Add documentation for dotnet nuget trust command (#24503)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tools/dotnet-nuget-trust.md

---
title: dotnet nuget trust command
description: The dotnet nuget trust command gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration.
author: erdembayar
ms.date: 06/02/2021
---
# dotnet nuget trust

> **This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 5.0.300 SDK, 6.0.100-preview.4 SDK and later versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 5.0.300 SDK and later versions
```

## Name

`dotnet nuget trust` - Gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration.

> ## Synopsis

Reviewer: The best model to follow for this article is the article for [dotnet sln](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln) with the exception that we should adopt the way you show the available commands here in the main Synopsis section.

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust [list|author|repository|source|certificate|remove|sync] [OPTIONS]

if none of list|add|remove|sync is specified, the command will default to list.

dotnet nuget trust -h|--help

> ```

Reviewer: See the example synopsis section in [dotnet sln](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln)

Text (like the "if none of..." sentence here) shouldn't be in a code block because it isn't localized (translated in other language versions of the article).

## Description

> The `dotnet nuget trust` gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration. For additional usage, see [Common NuGet configurations](../../consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior.md). For details on how the nuget.config schema looks like, refer to the [NuGet config file reference](../nuget-config-file.md).

Reviewer: There are build warnings that say these two links are broken.

> ## Arguments

Reviewer: Following the example of See the example synopsis section in [dotnet sln](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln), this becomes a series of H3s under a Commands H2 section; unlike [dotnet sln](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln) this one will then not have an Arguments H2.

- `<list|author|repository|source|certificate|remove|sync>`

  Specifies the command for gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration. 

> #### `> dotnet nuget trust list`

Reviewer: These should follow the [dotnet sln](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-sln) example: under an H2 **Commands** each of these should be an h3 with its own set of Synopsis, Arguments, and Options H4 sections.

---
title: dotnet nuget trust command
description: The dotnet nuget trust command gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration.
author: erdembayar
ms.date: 06/02/2021
---
# dotnet nuget trust

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 5.0.300 SDK and later versions

## Name

`dotnet nuget trust` - Gets or sets trusted signers to the NuGet configuration.

## Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust [command] [OPTIONS]

dotnet nuget trust -h|--help
```

## Description

> The `dotnet nuget trust` manage the trusted signers. By default, NuGet accepts all authors and repositories. These commands allow you to specify only a specific subset of signers whose signatures will be accepted, while rejecting all others. For additional usage, see [Common NuGet configurations](/nuget/consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior). For details on how the nuget.config schema looks like, refer to the [NuGet config file reference](/nuget/reference/nuget-config-file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dotnet nuget trust` command manages the trusted signers. By default, NuGet accepts all authors and repositories. These commands allow you to specify only a specific subset of signers whose signatures will be accepted, while rejecting all others. For more information, see [Common NuGet configurations](/nuget/consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior). For details on what the nuget.config schema looks like, refer to the [NuGet config file reference](/nuget/reference/nuget-config-file).
```

> 

Author: @tdykstra 
Do I need to put relative path or absolute path for link?

Reviewer: Since it's not  in the same repo it will have to be a relative URL rather than a path to the .md file:

/nuget/consume-packages/configuring-nuget-behavior

/nuget/reference/nuget-config-file

Author: @tdykstra 
Ok. I corrected it. Could you be able to review now?

## Options

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

## Commands

If no command is specified, the command will default to `list`.

### `list`

Lists all the trusted signers in the configuration. This option will include all the certificates (with fingerprint and fingerprint algorithm) each signer has. If a certificate has a preceding [U], it means that certificate entry has allowUntrustedRoot set as true.

#### Synopsis:

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust list [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Defaults to m[inimal]. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

### `sync`

Deletes the current list of certificates and replaces them with an up-to-date list from the repository.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli

> dotnet nuget trust sync <name> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust sync <NAME> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be synced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the existing trusted signer to sync.
```

> - **`name`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

### `remove`

Removes any trusted signers that match the given name.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust remove <name> [OPTIONS]
```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the existing trusted signer to remove.
```

> dotnet nuget trust remove <name> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust remove <NAME> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

> - **`name`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

### `author`

Adds a trusted signer with the given name, based on the author signature of the package.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust author <name> <package> [OPTIONS]
```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be added. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature will be appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the existing trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.
```

> dotnet nuget trust author <name> <package> [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust author <NAME> <PACKAGE> [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

- **`package`**

>   The given `package` should be local path to the signed .nupkg file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The given `package` should be a local path to the signed *.nupkg* file.
```

> - **`name`**
> 
>   The name of the trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.
> 
> - **`package`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**

  The name of the trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.

- **`PACKAGE`**
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`--allow-untrusted-root`**

  Specifies if the certificate for the trusted signer should be allowed to chain to an untrusted root. This is not recommended.

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

### `repository`

Adds a trusted signer with the given name, based on the repository signature or countersignature of a signed package.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust repository <name> <package> [OPTIONS]
```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be added. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature will be appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the existing trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.
```

- **`package`**

>   The given `package` should be local path to the signed .nupkg file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The given `package` should be a local path to the signed *.nupkg* file.
```

> dotnet nuget trust repository <name> <package> [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust repository <NAME> <PACKAGE> [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

> - **`name`**
> 
>   The name of the trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**

  The name of the trusted signer to add. If `NAME` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.
```

> - **`name`**
> 
>   The name of the trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.
> 
> - **`package`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**

  The name of the trusted signer to add. If `name` already exists in the configuration, the signature is appended.

- **`PACKAGE`**
```

>   The given `package` should be a local path to the signed *.nupkg* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The given `PACKAGE` should be a local path to the signed *.nupkg* file.
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`--allow-untrusted-root`**

  Specifies if the certificate for the trusted signer should be allowed to chain to an untrusted root. This is not recommended.

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

### `certificate`

Adds a trusted signer with the given name, based on a certificate fingerprint.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli
dotnet nuget trust certificate <name> <fingerprint> [OPTIONS]
```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be added. If a trusted signer with the given name already exists, the certificate item will be added to that signer. Otherwise a trusted author will be created with a certificate item from given certificate information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the existing trusted signer to add. If a trusted signer with the given name already exists, the certificate item is added to that signer. Otherwise a trusted author is created with a certificate item from the given certificate information.
```

> dotnet nuget trust certificate <name> <fingerprint> [--algorithm <ALGORITHM>] [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust certificate <NAME> <FINGERPRINT> [--algorithm <ALGORITHM>] [--allow-untrusted-root] [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

> - **`name`**
> 
>   The name of the trusted signer to add. If a trusted signer with the given name already exists, the certificate item is added to that signer. Otherwise a trusted author is created with a certificate item from the given certificate information.
> 
> - **`fingerprint`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**

  The name of the trusted signer to add. If a trusted signer with the given name already exists, the certificate item is added to that signer. Otherwise a trusted author is created with a certificate item from the given certificate information.

- **`FINGERPRINT`**
```

  The fingerprint of the certificate.

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`--allow-untrusted-root`**

  Specifies if the certificate for the trusted signer should be allowed to chain to an untrusted root. This is not recommended.

- **`--algorithm <ALGORITHM>`**

  Specifies the hash algorithm used to calculate the certificate fingerprint. Defaults to SHA256. Values supported are SHA256, SHA384 and SHA512.
  
- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile <PATH>`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

### `source`

Adds a trusted signer based on a given package source.

#### Synopsis

```dotnetcli

> dotnet nuget trust source <name> [source-url] [--owners <List>] [OPTIONS]

Reviewer: IF source-url is an option rather than an argument, it should be prefixed by `--`.

```

#### Arguments

- **`name`**

>   The name of existing trusted signer going be added. If only `<name>` is provided without `<source-url>`, the package source from your NuGet configuration files with the same name will be added to the trusted list. If `<name>` already exists in the configuration, the package source will be appended to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of existing trusted signer to add. If only `<name>` is provided without `<source-url>`, the package source from your NuGet configuration files with the same name is added to the trusted list. If `<name>` already exists in the configuration, the package source is appended to it.
```

> dotnet nuget trust source <name> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [--owners <List>] [--source-url] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dotnet nuget trust source <NAME> [--configfile <PATH>] [-h|--help] [--owners <List>] [--source-url] [-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>]
```

> - **`name`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`NAME`**
```

#### OPTIONS:

- **`--owners <List>`**

>   Semi-colon separated list of trusted owners to further restrict the trust of a repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Semicolon-separated list of trusted owners to further restrict the trust of a repository.
```

- **`source-url`**

>   If a `source-url` is provided, it MUST be a v3 package source URL (like <https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json>). Other package source types are not supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If a `source-url` is provided, it must be a v3 package source URL (like `https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json`). Other package source types are not supported.
```

>   The name of the trusted signer to add. If only `<name>` is provided without `--<source-url>`, the package source from your NuGet configuration files with the same name is added to the trusted list. If `<name>` already exists in the configuration, the package source is appended to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name of the trusted signer to add. If only `<NAME>` is provided without `--<source-url>`, the package source from your NuGet configuration files with the same name is added to the trusted list. If `<NAME>` already exists in the configuration, the package source is appended to it.
```

> #### OPTIONS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Options:
```

- **`-h|--help`**

  Prints out a description of how to use the command.

- **`-v, --verbosity <LEVEL>`**

  Set the verbosity level. Allowed values are q[uiet], m[inimal], n[ormal], d[etailed], and diag[nostic].

- **`--configfile`**

>   Specific NuGet file that should be used instead of the standard hierarchy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Specific NuGet file to use instead of the standard hierarchy.
```

## Examples

- List trusted signers:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet nuget trust list
  ```

- Trust source *NuGet* in specified *nuget.config* file:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet nuget trust source NuGet --configfile ..\nuget.config
  ```

- Trust an author from signed nupkg package file *foo.nupkg* with *--allow-untrusted-root* option:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet nuget trust author PackageAuthor .\foo.nupkg --allow-untrusted-root

>   ```

Reviewer: Given that we say this option is not recommended, should we omit an example showing it?

- Trust a repository from signed nupkg package file *foo.nupkg*:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet nuget trust repository PackageRepository .\foo.nupkg
  ```

> - Trust a package signing certificate using it's SHA256 fingerprint:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trust a package signing certificate using its SHA256 fingerprint:
```

  ```dotnetcli
    dotnet nuget trust certificate MyCert  F99EC8CDCE5642B380296A19E22FA8EB3AEF1C70079541A2B3D6E4A93F5E1AFD --algorithm SHA256
  ```

> - Trust owners *Nuget* and *Microsoft* from the repository <https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json>:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Trust owners *Nuget* and *Microsoft* from the repository `https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json`:
```

  ```dotnetcli
    dotnet nuget trust source NuGetTrust https://api.nuget.org/v3/index.json --owners "Nuget;Microsoft"
  ```

> - Removes trusted signer named *NuGet* from  specified *nuget.config* file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove trusted signer named *NuGet* from  specified *nuget.config* file:
```
